# Running the STH server

To run the STH server, please execute the following command from the directory where the STH component was installed:
```bash
./bin/sth
```

The STH component provides the user with 2 mechanisms to configure the component to the concrete needs of the user:

- Environment variables, which can be set assigning values to them or using the [`sth_default.conf`](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-sth-comet/blob/master/rpm/EXAMPLES/sth_default.conf) file if a packaged version of the STH component is used.
- The [`config.js`](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-sth-comet/blob/master/config.js) file located at the root of the STH component code, a JSON formatted file including the configuration properties.

It is important to note that environment variables, if set, take precedence over the properties defined in the [`config.js`](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-sth-comet/blob/master/config.js) file.

The environment variables accepted by the script (for which there exists counterpart entries in the already mentioned [`config.js`](https://github.com/telefonicaid/fiware-sth-comet/blob/master/config.js) are the following ones:

- `STH_HOST`: The host where the STH server will be started. Optional. Default value: "localhost".
- `STH_PORT`: The port where the STH server will be listening. Optional. Default value: "8666".
- `FILTER_OUT_EMPTY`: A flag indicating if the empty results should be removed from the response. Optional. Default value: "true".
- `TEMPORAL_DIR`: A relative path from the STH home directory to a directory where the temporary files generated by the STH component are stored. These files are generated before returning them when the `filetype` is included in any data retrieval request.
Default value: "temp".
- `DEFAULT_SERVICE`: The service to be used if not sent in the Orion Context Broker notifications. Optional. Default value: "testservice".
- `DEFAULT_SERVICE_PATH`: The service path to be used if not sent in the Orion Context Broker notifications. Optional. Default value: "/testservicepath".
- `DATA_MODEL`: The STH component supports 3 alternative data models when storing the raw and aggregated data into the database: 1) one collection per attribute, 2) one collection per entity and 3) one collection per service path. The possible values are: "collection-per-attribute", "collection-per-entity" and "collection-per-service-path" respectively. Default value: "collection-per-entity".
- `DB_USERNAME`: The username to use for the database connection. Optional. Default value: "".
- `DB_PASSWORD`: The password to use for the database connection. Optional. Default value: "".
- `DB_URI`: The URI to use for the database connection. This does not include the 'mongo://' protocol part (see a couple of examples below). Optional. Default value: "localhost:27017".
- `REPLICA_SET`: The name of the replica set to connect to, if any. Default value: "".
- `DB_PREFIX`: The prefix to be added to the service for the creation of the databases. More information below. Optional. Default value: "sth_".
- `COLLECTION\PREFIX`: The prefix to be added to the collections in the databases. More information below. Optional. Default value: "sth_".
- `POOL_SIZE`: The default MongoDB pool size of database connections. Optional. Default value: "5".
- `WRITE_CONCERN`: The [write concern policy](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/core/write-concern/) to apply when writing data to the MongoDB database. Default value: "1".
- `SHOULD_STORE`: Flag indicating if the raw and/or aggregated data should be persisted. Valid values are: "only-raw", "only-aggregated" and "both". Default value: "both".
- `TRUNCATION_EXPIRE_AFTER_SECONDS`: Data from the raw and aggregated data collections will be removed if older than the value specified in seconds. In case of raw data the reference time is the one stored in the `recvTime` property whereas in the case of the aggregated data the reference of time is the one stored in the `_id.origin` property. Set the value to 0 not to apply this time-based truncation policy. Default value: "0".
- `TRUNCATION_SIZE`: The oldest raw data (according to insertion time) will be removed if the size of the raw data collection gets bigger than the value specified in bytes. Set the value to 0 not to apply this truncation policy. Take into consideration than the "size" configuration parameter is mandatory in case size collection truncation is desired as required by MongoDB. Default value: "0". Notice that this configuration parameter does not affect the aggregated data collections since MongoDB does not currently support updating documents in capped collections which increase the size of the documents. Notice also that in case of the raw data, the size-based truncation policy takes precedence over the TTL one. More concretely, if a size limitation is set, the previous time expiration is ignored for the raw data collections since currently MongoDB does not support TTL in capped collections. Default value: "0".
- `TRUNCATION_MAX`: The oldest raw data (according to insertion time) will be removed if the number of documents in the raw data collections goes beyond the specified value. Set the value to 0 not to apply this truncation policy. Notice that this configuration parameter does not affect the aggregated data collections since MongoDB does not currently support updating documents in capped collections which increase the size of the documents. Default value: "0".
- `IGNORE_BLANK_SPACES`: Attribute values to one or more blank spaces should be ignored and not processed either as raw data or for the aggregated computations. Default value: "true".
- `NAME_ENCODING`: // Database and collection names should be encoded to avoid the restrictions imposed by MongoDB and stated at https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/limits/. The encoding criteria is the following one: 1) encode the forbidden characters using an escaping character (`x`) and the numerical Unicode code for each character (for instance, the `$` character will be encoded as `x0024`), 2) database and collection names already using the above encoding must be escaped prepending another `x` (for instance, the text `x002a` will be encoded as `xx002a`, 3) the uppercase characters included in database names will be encoded using the mechanism stated in 1), 4) collection names starting with `system.` will be encoded as `xsystem.` (for instance, `system.myData` will be encoded as `xsystem.myData`) and 5) the name separator character (`xffff`) is not decoded. Default value: "true".
- `LOGOPS_LEVEL`: The log level to use. Possible values are: "DEBUG", "INFO", "WARN", "ERROR" and "FATAL". Since the STH component uses the logops package for logging, for further information check out the [logops](https://www.npmjs.com/package/logops) npm package information online. Default value: "INFO".
- `LOGOPS_FORMAT`: The log format to use. Possible values are: "json" (writes logs as JSON), "dev" (for development, used when the NODE_ENV variable is set to 'development'). Since the STH component uses the logops package for logging, for further information please check out the [logops](https://www.npmjs.com/package/logops) npm package information online. Default value: "json".
- `PROOF_OF_LIFE_INTERVAL`: The time in seconds between proof of life logging messages informing that the server is up and running normally. Default value: "60".

For example, to start the STH server listening on port 7777, connecting to a MongoDB instance listening on mymongo.com:27777 and without filtering out the empty results, use:
```bash
STH_PORT=7777 DB_URI=mymongo.com:27777 FILTER_OUT_EMPTY=false ./bin/sth
```

On the other hand, in case of connecting to a MongoDB replica set composed of 3 machines with IPs addresses 1.1.1.1, 1.1.1.2, 1.1.1.3 listening on ports 27771, 27772 and 27773, respectively, use:
```bash
DB_URI=1.1.1.1:27771,1.1.1.2:27772,1.1.1.3:27773 ./bin/sth
```

The STH component creates a new database for each [service](http://fiware-orion.readthedocs.io/en/develop/user/multitenancy/index.html). The name of these databases will be the concatenation of the `DB_PREFIX` environment variable and the service name, using an underscore (`_`) as the separator.

As already mentioned, all these configuration parameters can also be adjusted using the `config.js` file whose contents are self-explanatory.

It is important to note that there is a [limitation](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/limits/#namespaces) of 120 bytes for the namespaces (concatenation of the database name and collection names) in MongoDB. Related to this, the STH generates the collection names using the following mechanism:

- The collection names are generated as a concatenation of the `COLLECTION_PREFIX` configuration parameter, the service path, the entity id, the entity type and the suffix ".aggr" for the collections storing the aggregated data. The length of the collection name plus the `DB_PREFIX` plus the database name (or service) should not be more than 120 bytes using UTF-8 format or MongoDB will complain and will not create the collection, and consequently no data would be stored by the STH. A warning message is logged in case this happens.
